Cause #3 - Illegal UE
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE when the network refuses service to the UE either because an identity of the
UE is not acceptable to the network or because the UE does not pass the authentication check.
Cause #6 - Illegal ME
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if the ME used is not acceptable to the network, e.g. blacklisted.
Cause #9 - UE identity cannot be derived by the network.
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE when the network cannot derive the UE's identity from the 5G-GUTI or 5GS-TMSI because of e.g. no matching identity/context in the network, failure to validate the UE's identity due to
integrity check failure of the received message.
Cause #10 - Implicitly de-registered
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE either if the network has implicitly de-registered the UE, e.g. after the
implicit de-registration timer has expired, or if the 5GMM context data related to the subscription does not exist
in the AMF e.g. because of a AMF restart, or because of a registration request for mobility or registration update
is routed to a new AMF.
Cause #5 - PEI not accepted
This cause is sent to the UE if the network does not accept an initial registration procedure for emergency
services using a PEI.
Cause #7 - 5GS services not allowed
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE when it is not allowed to operate 5GS services.
Cause #11 - PLMN not allowed
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests service, or if the network initiates a de-registration request, in a
PLMN where the UE, by subscription or due to operator determined barring, is not allowed to operate.
Cause #12 - Tracking area not allowed
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests service, or if the network initiates a de-registration request, in a
tracking area where the HPLMN determines that the UE, by subscription, is not allowed to operate.
NOTE 1: If 5GMM cause #12 is sent to a roaming subscriber the subscriber is denied service even if other PLMNs
are available on which registration was possible.
Cause #13 - Roaming not allowed in this tracking area
This 5GMM cause is sent to a UE which requests service, or if the network initiates a de-registration request, in
a tracking area of a PLMN which by subscription offers roaming to that UE but not in that tracking area.
Cause #15 - No suitable cells in tracking area
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests service, or if the network initiates a de-registration request, in a
tracking area where the UE, by subscription, is not allowed to operate, but when it should find another allowed
tracking area in the same PLMN or an equivalent PLMN.
NOTE 2: Cause #15 and cause #12 differ in the fact that cause #12 does not trigger the UE to search for another
allowed tracking area on the same PLMN.
Cause #27 - N1 mode not allowed
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests service, or if the network initiates a de-registration request, in a
PLMN where the UE by subscription, is not allowed to operate in N1 mode.
Cause #72 - Non-3GPP access to 5GCN not allowed
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests accessing 5GCN over non-3GPP access in a PLMN, where the
UE by subscription, is not allowed to access 5GCN over non-3GPP access.
congestion/authentication failures
Cause #20 - MAC failure
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network if the USIM detects that the MAC in the AUTHENTICATION
REQUEST message is not fresh.
Cause #21 - Synch failure
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network if the USIM detects that the SQN in the AUTHENTICATION
REQUEST message is out of range.
Cause #22 - Congestion
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE because of congestion in the network (e.g. no channel, facility
busy/congested etc.).
Cause #23 - UE security capabilities mismatch
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network if the UE detects that the UE security capability does not match the one
sent back by the network.
Cause #24 - Security mode rejected, unspecified
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network if the security mode command is rejected by the UE for unspecified
reasons.
Cause #26 - Non-5G authentication unacceptable
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network in N1 mode if the "separation bit" in the AMF field of AUTN is set to 0
in the AUTHENTICATION REQUEST message (see 3GPP TS 33.501 [24]).
Cause #28 - Restricted service area
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if it requests service in a tracking area which is a part of the UE's nonallowed area or is not a part of the UE's allowed area.
Cause #43 - LADN not available
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if the user-plane resources of the PDU session are not established when the
UE is located outside the LADN service area.
Cause #65 - Maximum number of PDU sessions reached
This 5GMM cause is used by the network to indicate that the procedure requested by the UE was rejected as the
network has reached the maximum number of simultaneously active PDU sessions for the UE.
Cause #67 - Insufficient resources for specific slice and DNN
This 5GMM cause is sent by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
insufficient resources for specific slice and DNN.
Cause #69 - Insufficient resources for specific slice
This 5GMM cause is sent by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
insufficient resources for specific slice.
Cause #71 - ngKSI already in use
This 5GMM cause is sent to the network in N1 mode if the ngKSI value received in the AUTHENTICATION
REQUEST message is already associated with one of the 5G NAS security contexts stored in the UE.
Cause #73 - Serving network not authorized
This 5GMM cause is sent to the UE if the UE initiates registration towards a serving network and the serving
network fails to be authorized by the UE's home network.
Cause #90 - Payload was not forwarded
This 5GMM cause is sent by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
payload could not be forwarded by AMF.
Cause #91 - DNN not supported or not subscribed in the slice
This 5GMM cause is sent by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
payload could not be forwarded by AMF because the DNN is not supported or not subscribed in the slice
selected by the network if the UE did not indicate a slice, or the DNN is not supported or not subscribed in the
slice indicated by the UE.
Cause #92 - Insufficient user-plane resources for the PDU session
This 5GMM cause is sent by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
insufficient user-plane resources for the PDU session.
Cause #95 - Semantically incorrect message
This 5GMM cause is used to report receipt of a message with semantically incorrect contents.
Cause #96 - Invalid mandatory information
This cause 5GMM indicates that the equipment sending this 5GMM cause has received a message with a nonsemantical mandatory IE error.
Cause #97 - Message type non-existent or not implemented
This 5GMM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GMM cause has received a message with a
message type it does not recognize either because this is a message not defined, or defined but not implemented
by the equipment sending this 5GMM cause.
Cause #98 - Message type not compatible with protocol state
This 5GMM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GMM cause has received a message not
compatible with the protocol state.
Cause #99 - Information element non-existent or not implemented
This 5GMM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GMM cause has received a message which
includes information elements not recognized because the information element identifier is not defined or it is
defined but not implemented by the equipment sending the 5GMM cause. However, the information element is
not required to be present in the message in order for the equipment sending the 5GMM cause to process the
message.
Cause #100 - Conditional IE error
This 5GMM cause indicates that the equipment sending this cause has received a message with conditional IE
errors.
Cause #101 - Message not compatible with protocol state
This 5GMM cause indicates that a message has been received which is incompatible with the protocol state.
Cause #111 - Protocol error, unspecified
This 5GMM cause is used to report a protocol error event only when no other 5GMM cause in the protocol error
class applies.
Cause #8 - Operator Determined Barring
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected by the SMF due to
Operator Determined Barring.
Cause #26 - Insufficient resources
This 5GSM cause is used by the UE or by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided
due to insufficient resources.
Cause #27 - Missing or unknown DNN
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected by the external DN
because the DNN was not included although required or if the DNN could not be resolved.
Cause #28 - Unknown PDU session type
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected by the external DN
because the requested PDU session type could not be recognised or is not allowed.
Cause #29 - User authentication or authorization failed
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected by the external DN
due to a failed user authentication, revoked by the external DN, or rejected by 5GCN due to a failed user
authentication or authorization.
Cause #31 - Request rejected, unspecified
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or by the UE to indicate that the requested service or operation or the
request for a resource was rejected due to unspecified reasons.
Cause #32 - Service option not supported
This 5GSM cause is used by the network when the UE requests a service which is not supported by the PLMN.
Cause #33 - Requested service option not subscribed
This 5GSM cause is sent when the UE requests a service option for which it has no subscription.
Cause #35 - PTI already in use
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the PTI included by the UE is already in use by another
active UE requested procedure for this UE.
Cause #36 - Regular deactivation
This 5GSM cause is used to indicate a regular UE or network initiated release of PDU session resources.
Cause #38 - Network failure
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected due to an error
situation in the network.
Cause #39 - Reactivation requested
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to request a PDU session reactivation.
Cause #41 - Semantic error in the TFT operation
This 5GSM cause is used by the UE to indicate a semantic error in the TFT operation included in the request.
Cause #42 - Syntactical error in the TFT operation
This 5GSM cause is used by the UE to indicate a syntactical error in the TFT operation included in the request.
Cause #43 -Invalid PDU session identity
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the PDU session identity value provided to it
is not a valid value or the PDU session identified by the PDU session identity IE in the request or the command
is not active.
Cause #44 - Semantic errors in packet filter(s)
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the requested service was rejected due to one
or more semantic errors in packet filter(s) of the QoS rule included in the request.
Cause #45 - Syntactical error in packet filter(s)
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the requested service was rejected due to one
or more syntactical errors in packet filter(s) of the QoS rule included in the request.
Cause #46 -Out of LADN service area
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate the UE is out of the LADN service area.
Cause #47 -PTI mismatch
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or UE to indicate that the PTI provided to it does not match any PTI in
use.
Cause #50 - PDU session type IPv4 only allowed
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that only PDU session type IPv4 is allowed for the
requested IP connectivity.
Cause #51 - PDU session type IPv6 only allowed
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that only PDU session type IPv6 is allowed for the
requested IP connectivity.
Cause #54 -PDU session does not exist
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the network does not have any information about the
PDU session which is requested by the UE to transfer between 3GPP access and non-3GPP access or from the
EPS to the 5GS.
Cause #67 - Insufficient resources for specific slice and DNN
This 5GSM cause is by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to insufficient
resources for specific slice and DNN.
Cause #68 - Not supported SSC mode
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested SSC mode is not supported.
Cause #69 -Insufficient resources for specific slice
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to
insufficient resources for specific slice.
Cause #70 - Missing or unknown DNN in a slice
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service was rejected by the external DN
because the DNN was not included although required or if the DNN could not be resolved, in the slice.
Cause #81 - Invalid PTI value
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or UE to indicate that the PTI provided to it is unassigned or reserved.
Cause #82 - Maximum data rate per UE for user-plane integrity protection is too low
This 5GSM cause is used by the network to indicate that the requested service cannot be provided due to the
maximum data rate per UE for user-plane integrity protection is too low.
Cause #83 - Semantic error in the QoS operation
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the requested service was rejected due to a
semantic error in the QoS operation included in the request.
Cause #84 - Syntactical error in the QoS operation
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the requested service was rejected due to a
syntactical error in the QoS operation included in the request.
Cause #85 - Invalid mapped EPS bearer identity
This 5GSM cause is used by the network or the UE to indicate that the mapped EPS bearer identity value
provided to it is not a valid value or the mapped EPS bearer identified by the mapped EPS bearer identity does
not exist.
Cause #95 - Semantically incorrect message
This 5GSM cause is used to report receipt of a message with semantically incorrect contents.
Cause #96 - Invalid mandatory information
This 5GSM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GSM cause has received a message with a nonsemantical mandatory IE error.
Cause #97 - Message type non-existent or not implemented
This 5GSM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GSM cause has received a message with a message
type it does not recognize either because this is a message not defined, or defined but not implemented by the
equipment sending this 5GSM cause.
Cause #98 - Message type not compatible with protocol state
This 5GSM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GSM cause has received a message not compatible
with the protocol state.
Cause #99 - Information element non-existent or not implemented
This 5GSM cause indicates that the equipment sending this 5GSM cause has received a message which includes
information elements not recognized because the information element identifier is not defined or it is defined but
not implemented by the equipment sending the 5GSM cause. However, the information element is not required
to be present in the message in order for the equipment sending the 5GSM cause to process the message.
Cause #100 - Conditional IE error
This 5GSM cause indicates that the equipment sending this cause has received a message with conditional IE
errors.
Cause #101 - Message not compatible with protocol state
This 5GSM cause indicates that a message has been received which is incompatible with the protocol state.
Cause #111 - Protocol error, unspecified
This 5GSM cause is used to report a protocol error event only when no other 5GSM cause in the protocol error
class applies.